well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about what everybody needs to know about
Iran and specifically what the president
needs to know to make good decisions
from this point forward for the very few
people who will get the reference in
walks weirdo okay to understand what's
going on like most things you have to
understand a little bit of history this
is an ancient people this is an ancient
people don't confuse that with backwards
though they're not they didn't survive
this long by being stupid we don't have
to go back thousands of years though we
only have to go back to the late late
40s early 50s
to really get a firm grasp of what's
going on at that point in time the
country was a constitutional monarchy
okay
you had the elected government and he
had the Shah the King
now the government looked at the
anglo-iranian oil company was like hey
you guys
y'all control a whole lot of our
national reserves we want to conduct it
on it and the oil company that later
became a part of BP was like no and the
government was like nationalized and the
British were like invasion but cooler
heads prevailed and they didn't invade
instead they decided to go to covert war
out if you're in the UK operation boot
if you're in the United States
it's an operation Ajax if you want to
look into this
this was the CIA's first first dabble in
what would become its calling card
overthrowing governments now so what
they did long story short they hired a
bunch of gangsters from Tehran the
capital and then they bust in tough guys
from all over the country they staged
protests now the first time they tried
this availed government forces over
power
the second time they tried it it worked
and they got rid of that pesky you know
elected government they consolidated
power under the Shah now that happened
in 1953 so from there now you have the
Shah
pretty much undisputed he had control of
civic SI vak civic is like if you took
the FBI crossed it with the CIA to
include their black sites and added a
bash of the Spanish Inquisition
now some sbatch have wide power
wide-ranging wide-ranging authority and
the laws in the country were very vague
very very vague so much so that if they
were the US and they went before a judge
they would be world void for vagueness
under our doctrines so what would happen
a savant agent would snatch somebody
that for whatever reason had displeased
the government or maybe not and they
would interrogate them torture that they
would gather a bunch of evidence on them
they put it into a dossier then so vaak
is no longer the interrogator they're
the judge no legal representation no
witnesses for the defense because there
is no defense to wait entirely on what's
inside that dossier then they pass
judgment sometimes you go to prison
sometimes they take out back and shoot
you obviously this caused some
resentment among the populace and it
furthered and fostered a revolutionary
feeling especially when a lot of the
people they were targeting were already
dissidents to begin with they did this
all right to the Azerbaijanis the Kurds
in it it fostered a lot of resentment
then there was the money they just
started pouring in the country because
of oil sells in the early 70s and there
were a lot of expectations as to what
was going to happen
and then they didn't now all over the
Middle East you have a rising sense of
Islamic nationalism okay and this was
brought on by a whole lot of things that
were going on at the time that I don't
want to get into because that's just for
a whole bunch of debates but there was a
lot of Western interference in the
Middle East at the time a lot and it
fostered this camaraderie in this sense
of Islam being the defense against the
West
a lot of politically motivated people
used the Quran the same way a lot of
American politicians use the Bible
something to rally behind and and it it
radicalized people the same way it does
in the US and what you're gonna find out
is it alone and the US are very very
similar it's kind of like we're so much
alike that's why we can't get along but
anyway so this rise in Islamic
nationalism coupled with the economic
issues added into an already radicalized
dissident populace led to the 1979
revolution and this is one that caught
everybody with their pants pants now the
entire intelligence community was just
like what was kind of like the Berlin
Wall nobody knew was gonna happen till
the BRICS started hitting them in the
head and so that brought us to
essentially the government we have in
our on today or on today and here's the
interesting thing the people there what
they see it's a lot like the US yeah
it's not the greatest government but
it's the best one we have
to them you know they've kept the West
at bay this form of government has kept
the west of bag and it has made them
relatively prosperous they're a regional
superpower you know to the US and we
downplay them they're pretty
technologically advanced realize they
just took down a drone and they're there
they're not a dumb people okay and
that's something that is it seems like a
common belief in the u.s. did it just
patently false there's a reason they
have survived this long but here's the
interesting thing we're back in 1953
again something that a lot of Americans
don't know is that they have an elected
government it's just like it was before
the Shaw kind of they have an elected
government and they have that theocratic
side now if you want to bring this
country out of isolation bring it into
the world so to speak what do you have
to do you have to strengthen the
Democratic side not waking it the way we
did the first on it that's what the
nuclear deal was supposed to do it was
it wasn't a great deal for those that
are huge supporters of it
mmm not so much but long term it was
strategically smart because it bolstered
the the moderates the liberals in the
country so speak those that want to
engage then the president comes in and
tears up the deal what message does that
send you can't trust the West so who
does that spring who's that strengthen
the theocratic side that they get
bolstered by that they get wind in their
sails but then for whatever reason and I
don't know why and all I can say is I'm
glad Trump didn't attack smartest thing
he's going to do in office I think I'm
almost certain of it so now
the people there they're kind of well
okay so we can't trust them but they're
not going to attack us
now is the time to move back in and
strengthen that Democratic side to show
that even if there's a dispute it can be
resolved peacefully and then we can move
in and we can advance we can bring them
out and the reason I care about this is
not because I really care about irani
and interest or American interest over
there I care about the people involved
and for once the the interest of the
American people the interest of the
Iranian people the interest of the
Iranian government and the interest of
the American government they all line up
war isn't good for anybody
it's not and we're at this golden moment
where we can actually take another step
forward because this cluster that was
caused by the president pulling out of
the deal may actually be a blessing in
disguise
we can move forward from it and show yes
we pulled out whatever but no matter
what we're not actually looking for war
in order to say that though we've got to
keep the hawks at bed we have to make
sure that we don't attack we have no
justification for it
we need to strengthen the Democratic
side of the government there that means
to be the primary mission now I
understand the intelligence community
doesn't like that because to them ever
since 1979
they've been upset I mean imagine put
yourself in that institution's shoes
this was your first big win and it blew
up in your face you have to redeem
yourself that's why there's been this
obsession that's why the CIA has
constantly been in Iran so I'm gonna
throw out a huge threat to us we they
can evade of course not it's its pride
its ego within that agency and the goal
of the intelligence community is not to
direct a policy it's to provide
information the information that was in
this video anyway it's just a fault
you'll have a good night